# Reading: Access Control (ACL)


### RBAC 
is the idea of assigning system access to users based on their role in an organization. It's important to remember that not every employee needs a starring role.


### Access control lists (ACL) 
— An ACL is a means of defining access rights by a given user or user group, to a specific object, such as a document.  As a simple example, an ACL could be used to allow users from one department to make changes to a document, while only allowing users from other departments to read the document.

### Attribute-based access control (ABAC) 
— ABAC, sometimes known as policy-based access control, can use a variety of attributes, including user department, time of day, location of access, type of access required, etc. to determine whether a user’s access request should be granted.





#### When is Basic Authorization used vs. Bearer Authorization?
Basic auth when we sign in for the first time  and we use username and password
bearer auth when we want to stay sign in each time we sin a request to the server and we use a generated token

#### What does the JSON Web Token package do?

it create a jst token and send it for the authorization purpose and also it verified and compare the token when it send to the server 


#### What considerations should we make when creating and storing a SECRET?

Don't share your secrets unencrypted in messaging systems like slack.
Store secrets safely.
Restrict API access and permissions.




* encryption:is the method by which information is converted into secret code that hides the information's true meaning.
  
* token: an encrypt string consist of header and payload and signature 
   
* bearer:  is an HTTP authentication scheme that involves security tokens called bearer tokens. ... The bearer token is a cryptic string, usually generated by the server in response to a login request.
  
* secret: a string that used to encrypt the token when we create it and  identify it when its come back to our server
  
* JSON Web Token: is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object